LBCache
=======
 
LBCache is an image caching library for iOS
 
 
How to use this library:
=======
- drag the <code>LBCache</code> folder to your project.
- import <code>Security</code>, <code>ImageIO</code> frameworks and <code>libobjc.dylib</code> library from Xcode.
- import the <code>"UIImageView+LBcategory.h"</code>
- optional, if needed (import <code>LBCache.h, NSURLSession+LBcategory, NSString+LBcategory, NSData+LBcategory</code>).


This library offer:
=======
- asynchronous image download;
- cache support (memory and disk) with the option to set the days to keep the cache on disk;
- option to get the local path to an image.
- send asynchronous data task requests using application/json and application/x-www-form-urlencoded ContentType and receive JSON response.
- create MD5,SHA1,SHA256 hash and hmac.
- encrypt/decrypt nstring/data.
- create an initialization vector.
- encode/decode base64.
 
 
Classes to use:
======= 
I. UIImageView+LBcategory:
-------
- this UIImageView category offer the option to set a URL string of the image location on the server;
- the image is downloaded asynchrnous in the background;
- the image is saved on the disk in the caches directory;

Methods to use:
- <code>setImageWithURLString:placeholderImage:</code> - download and cache the image
- <code>setImageWithURLString:placeholderImage:options:</code> - download and cache the image
- <code>setImageWithURLString:placeholderImage:options:completionBlock:</code> - download, cache and return the image
- <code>imageForURLString:</code> - search the UIImage directly in cache (memory or disk), nil is returned if not found


There are 3 options to use:
- <code>LBCacheImageOptionsDefault</code> - it first search the memory cache, if not found it search on the disk, if not found it will download asynchronous and cache it
- <code>LBCacheImageOptionsReloadFromWebOrCache</code> - it will try to reload the image from the web, if it fails it will load from local cache
- <code>LBCacheImageOptionsLoadOnlyFromCache</code> - it will only search in memory and on the disk



II. LBCache:
-------
- this class is used by the UIImageView category for the download but you can use it directly.

Options to use:
- <code>kDaysToKeepCache</code> - stores the days to keep the images in cache
- <code>kDefaultHashType</code> - stores the hash type declared in the <code>NSString+LBcategory.h</code> category and it has 3 values: <code>HashTypeMD5, HashTypeSHA1, HashTypeSHA256</code>
 
Methods to use:
- <code>imagePathLocationForURLString:</code> - a string with the local path location of the image saved on disk or nil if the image for the URLString is not found
- <code>downloadImageFromURLString:options:progressBlock:completionBlock:</code> - same as UIImageView+Lbcategory, cache and return the image
- <code>imageForURLString:</code> - same as UIImageView+LBcategory, search the UIImage directly in cache (memory or disk), nil is returned if not found

 
III. NSURLSession+LBcategory:
-------
- this class is used by the LBCache to download and cache the UIImage from a URL but it can also be used to work with a web API.
- an error domain was created for this class category, check NSURLSession+LBcategory.h for more details.
 
Methods to use:
- <code>dataTaskWithImageURLString:completionBlock:</code> - async download an image from the web.
- <code>dataTaskWithURLString:stringHTTPBody:method:completionBlock:</code> - this method can be used for GET requests (pass nil for stringHTTPBody parameter) or POST requests (pass the stringHTTPBody string to be set as HTTPBody (<code> Content-Type -> application/x-www-form-urlencoded </code>).
<code>dataTaskWithURLString:objectHTTPBody:method:completionBlock:</code> - this method can be used for GET requests (pass nil for objectHTTPBody parameter) or POST requests (pass the objectHTTPBody object (<code>NSArray</code> or <code>NSDictionary</code> which is serialized into a <code>JSON</code> and set as HTTPBody).

 
IV. NSString+LBcategory:
-------
- use this class category to get hash value from a string or to encrypt/decrypt data.
- there are 3 options available, <code>MD5, SHA1 and SHA256</code>

Methods to use:
- <code>lbHashMD5</code> - create an MD5 hash
- <code>lbHashSHA1</code> - create an SHA1 hash
- <code>lbHashSHA256</code> - create an SHA256 hash
- <code>lbHashWithType:</code> - create a hash using the 3 available options
- <code>lbHashMacWithKey:</code> - create a hash Message Authentication Code using a Key
- <code>encryptedWithAESUsingKey:andIV:</code> - encrypt data using a Key and IV
- <code>decryptedWithAESUsingKey:andIV:</code> - decrypt data using a Key and IV

 
V. NSData+LBcategory:
-------
- use this category to encrypt/decrypt data, create initialization vector for ecryption and encode in base64

Methods to use:
- <code> initializationVectorOfLength: </code> - get initialization vector, random generated bytes using SecRandomCopyBytes
- <code> defaultInitializationVector </code> - get initialization vector, random generated bytes using SecRandomCopyBytes
- <code>encryptedWithAESUsingKey:andIV:</code> - encrypt data using a Key and IV
- <code>decryptedWithAESUsingKey:andIV:</code> - decrypt data using a Key and IV
 


LICENSE
=======

This content is released under the MIT License https://github.com/lucianboboc/LBCache/blob/master/LICENSE.md
 

Enjoy!
